Added pgml.rank docs (#1514)
postgresml/postgresml: pgml-cms/docs/api/sql-extension/pgml.rank.md

---
description: Rank documents against a piece of text using the specified ranking model.
---

# pgml.rank()

> The `pgml.rank` function is used to rank text documents against some text. This function is primarly used as the last step in a search system where the results returned from the initial search are reranked before being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pgml.rank()` function is used to rank text documents against some text. This function is primarily used as the last step in a search system where the results returned from the initial search are re-ranked before being used.
```

Reviewer: https://www.reddit.com/r/HelixEditor/comments/10r5t56/spellcheck_in_helix/ No helix spellchecker? :O

Author: Haha no I need to add a spell checker LSP.

> The `pgml.rank` function is used to rank text documents against some text. This function is primarly used as the last step in a search system where the results returned from the initial search are reranked before being used.

Author: Is this more clear? https://github.com/postgresml/postgresml/pull/1514/commits/46dfe4aa1154e1c48b23d37f051289a2effd6f65

> The `pgml.rank` function is used to rank text documents against some text. This function is primarly used as the last step in a search system where the results returned from the initial search are reranked before being used.

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/postgresml/postgresml/assets/9561483/7f1be4f0-b545-4a47-99a0-6cbe4218d5a3)

## API

```postgresql
pgml.rank(
    transformer TEXT,  -- transformer name
    query TEXT,        -- text to rank against
    documents TEXT[],  -- documents to rank
    kwargs JSON        -- optional arguments (see below)
)
```

## Example

> 

Reviewer: Let's document the difference between these calls. Take a look at examples:
- https://postgresml.org/docs/api/sql-extension/pgml.transform/#examples
- https://postgresml.org/docs/api/sql-extension/pgml.embed#generate-embeddings-inside-a-table

Author: How does this look: https://github.com/postgresml/postgresml/pull/1514/commits/f9c5ff2e82ecd96ffef0daaa08c92bb57099032c

```postgresql
SELECT pgml.rank('mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-base-v1', 'test', ARRAY['doc1', 'doc2']);
```

```postgresql
SELECT pgml.chunk('mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-base-v1', 'test', ARRAY['doc1', 'doc2'], '{"return_documents": false, "top_k": 10}'::JSONB);
```

> ## Supported Ranking Models

Reviewer: Let's use `Sentence case` like we do in other headings in our documentation.

> 

Reviewer: Let's provide a bit more information if available. To have good documentation, we need to be a bit more descriptive about how, and why things work.

Author: How does this look?https://github.com/postgresml/postgresml/pull/1514/commits/f9c5ff2e82ecd96ffef0daaa08c92bb57099032c

Reviewer: Me like

pgml.rank(
    transformer TEXT,  -- transformer name
    query TEXT,        -- text to rank against
    documents TEXT[],  -- documents to rank
    kwargs JSON        -- optional arguments (see below)
)
```

## Example

Ranking documents is as simple as calling the the function with the documents you want to rank, and text you want to rank against:

```postgresql
SELECT pgml.rank('mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-base-v1', 'test', ARRAY['doc1', 'doc2']);
```

By default the `pgml.rank()` function will return and rank all of the documents. The function can be configured to only return the relevance score and index of the top k documents by setting `return_documents` to `false` and `top_k` to the number of documents you want returned.

```postgresql
SELECT pgml.rank('mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-base-v1', 'test', ARRAY['doc1', 'doc2'], '{"return_documents": false, "top_k": 10}'::JSONB);
```

## Supported ranking models

We currently support cross-encoders for re-ranking. Check out [Sentence Transformer's documentation](https://sbert.net/examples/applications/cross-encoder/README.html) for more information on how cross-encoders work.

By default we provide the following ranking models:

> * `mixedbread-ai/mxbai-rerank-base-v1`

Reviewer 2: Can I use other models from hugging face? There's no mention here.

Author: Yes you can. If you are using a serverless hosted database you can request for that model specifically. Is there a model you are interested in using that is not here?

Reviewer 2: Just to make sure that I can use any because embedding and reranking models will get update regularly.
I currently pick:

- for embedding (multilingual) 👉 https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-m3
- for reranking 👉 https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-reranker-large

Author: Those should work. If you are using serverless and want to use them, you will need to request access to them. Let  me know if you have any problems and I'm happy to take a look!
